feat: propose sponsors level for opencollective and github (#496)
expressjs/discussions: docs/rfc/0001-funding-tiers.md

# Funding Tiers and Sponsor Rewards

## Summary

> Replace Express's current flat two-tier funding structure (Backer $5/mo, Sponsor $100/mo, both with no described rewards) with an eight-tier ladder — Backer, Supporter, Patron, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, Diamond — each carrying explicit, escalating recognition rewards (SPONSORS.md → README logo → expressjs.com → docs). Top tiers use limited slot counts to create scarcity, with a single-slot Diamond tier as the apex. The same tier structure is mirrored across the project's funding surfaces (OpenCollective and GitHub Sponsors) so sponsors can fund Express through whichever platform their organization prefers. This RFC complements (and does not modify) [ADR 299: Funding Use Guidelines](../adr/299-funding-guidelines.md), which governs how funds are spent; this RFC addresses how sponsors are recognized.

Reviewer: > escalating recognition rewards (SPONSORS.md → README logo → expressjs.com → docs)

I think we discussed the logo/sponsors pages and explicitly did not want to do a "pay for play" scheme. We wanted sponsors who *just* want to support the project because it is valuable to them for it to be secure and stable.

I personally am indifferent on this topic, but I think there is merit in making sure we don't end up with a bunch of sponsors on there just to get the logo/link back. Maybe we can find a tier setup that doesn't include these types of "rewards"?

## Motivation

> Express is the most-depended-on web framework in the Node.js ecosystem, with over **100 million weekly downloads** on npm. Despite that footprint, the project's funding surfaces are underdeveloped:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Express is the most depended on web framework in the Node.js ecosystem, with over **100 million weekly downloads** on npm. Despite that footprint, the project's funding is almost non-existent:
```

> - Only **two recurring tiers** exist: Backer at $5/mo and Sponsor at $100/mo.

Reviewer: I would add that there are not many people at either of these tiers. Especially considering if you compared this with other larger or important projects (see below). Considering this is the section justifying work being done on a funding model, I think you should make the argument on *why* does the project even consider this important before focusing on the small details like this. Maybe just swapping the order of these to put this below? Like:

1. we have no sponsors
2. compare to other projects
3. why we think this is the case

| **Supporter** | $15 | Name + supporter badge in `SPONSORS.md` | unlimited |
| **Patron** | $50 | Name + patron badge in `SPONSORS.md` + name on the expressjs.com sponsors page | unlimited |
| **Bronze Sponsor** | $100 | Small logo in `README.md` of `expressjs/express` + name on the expressjs.com sponsors page | unlimited |
| **Silver Sponsor** | $500 | Medium logo in `README.md` + logo on the expressjs.com sponsors page | unlimited |
| **Gold Sponsor** | $1,500 | Logo on the **expressjs.com homepage** + larger logo in `README.md` | **5 slots** |
| **Platinum Sponsor** | $5,000 | Logo on the expressjs.com homepage **and** docs site header + top placement in `README.md` | **3 slots** |
| **Diamond Sponsor** | $10,000 | Exclusive top placement on `README.md`, expressjs.com homepage, and docs site header. Dedicated **case study card** on `expressjs.com/sponsors` (see Diamond case study card below). Recognition as Express's principal sponsor on each funding surface. | **1 slot** |

A **Custom Donation** option (one-time or recurring, any amount) remains available for contributors who do not match a tier.

> ### Reward specifics

Reviewer: This is going to be the most contentious part of this proposal. Honestly I would consider making this section more of a brainstorm idea section than a concrete proposal. That way we could discuss and land a less contentious "we want to revamp the OC levels" agreement first, then add on the specifics of the "tier benefits" (a name I would prefer over awards) later.
